RELPRON Property Annotation Guidelines

Used to produce the dataset described in:

Laura Rimell, Jean Maillard, Tamara Polajnar and Stephen
Clark. 2016. RELPRON: A Relative Clause Composition Dataset for
Compositional Distributional Semantics. Computational Linguistics.

Choosing Properties for a Term:

1. Start from the top of the frequency-ordered list of SVO triples.
Choose at most one property per verb per grammatical function.  Stop
when you have reached 10 good properties.  Aim for about 5 object and
5 subject properties, but if there aren't enough of one, choose more
of the other.

2. Identifying property: the property should distinguish the term from
other hyponyms of the head noun. For example, "win tournament" does
not distinguish a "golfer" from other kinds of players, but "use iron"
does.  Aim for properties that distinguish the term from most examples
of the head noun that come to mind (not only from the ten or so
specific examples in this dataset).  However, it will never be
possible to distinguish the term from *all* other nouns in the
comparison class; for example, a property that applies to "traveler"
may equally apply to "voyager", but such a property is still OK.

3. The property should *mainly* and/or *canonically* apply to the
term. For example, "person that tavern serve" is not a good property
for "traveler", because many people may eat and drink at a tavern.
Similarly, "person that government advise" is not a good property for
"traveler"; although governments do issue travel advisories, they also
issue health advisories and many other kinds of advice.  However,
"person that hotel serve" is good for "traveler", because the *main*
purpose of a hotel is for people who have traveled from their homes,
even though someone could conceivably go to a hotel for a meal or a
meeting if they live around the corner. As another example, "device
that bomb have" is a good property for "timer"; although bombs include
several (sub-)devices (so it can't be said that this property applies
mainly to timers in a strict quantitative sense), a timer is a very
*canonical* (iconic, recognizable) part of a bomb, and so the property
is identifying.  Note that staying in a hotel is also a very
canonical/iconic/recognizable thing for travelers to do.

4. No proper noun arguments.

5. No repetition of the term root (e.g. both of the following are
disallowed for "golfer": "player that golfer beat", "player that play
golf").

6. The SVO structure must represent a simple transitive.  E.g. "person
that airport allow" is bad, because an argument of the verb is missing
(airports allow people to do something).  Be conservative: "person
that steamboat take" should be disallowed for "traveler"; normally the
verb "take" subcategorizes for a directional PP or adverb in this
construction.

7. Omit odd or awkward phrases, e.g. "person that interchange serve".

8. Choose properties with lexical overlap when available; e.g. if
properties for different terms share lemmas such as "team", "study, or
"visit", which may be in different syntactic positions (even different
parts of speech). This helps make the dataset challenging.


Discarding a Candidate Term:

The candidate terms have been randomly selected from among hyponyms of
each head noun.  Inevitably, some will not be appropriate, in which
case you will be given new, randomly selected ones.  We decide that a
term cannot be used if one or more of the following holds:

1. Impossible to find several identifying properties for the term
among the candidate properties.  This may happen if the term is fairly
abstract/general, or if insufficient candidates have been found in the
corpus.

2. Most candidates pertain to a sense in which the term is not a
hyponym of the head noun (e.g. if "crane" is a hyponym of head noun
"machine", but most candidates pertain to the 'bird' sense of crane.)

3. In your judgement, the relationship between term and head noun is
not really hypernymy in common usage, and sounds wrong in the relative
clause context (e.g. WordNet has "Cognac" as a hyponym of "drug", but
"Cognac: a drug that <V O>" does not sound natural).

4. Insufficient lexical variety among the participants that make good
properties (e.g. for "lease", if all good properties involved
"landlord" or "tenant" as arguments with various verbs).
